Add documentation for Knative Eventing Mesh (#6617)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/event-bus/03-04-knative-eventing-mesh.md

---

> title: Knative "Eventing Mesh (Alpha)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Knative Eventing Mesh (Alpha)"
```

type: Details
---

## Overview

Knative Eventing Mesh leverages Knative Eventing components to build an eventing mesh that provides event routing and pub/sub capabilities. It abstracts the underlying messaging system and allows you to configure different persistence for each Namespace. Kyma components wire the mesh dynamically for event routing. This way, senders can inject Events into the mesh from multiple source points, and subscribers can receive Events based on filters and their access permissions. The [Knative Broker and Trigger](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) CRDs allow the process of Event publishing and consumption to run smoother, thus significantly improving the overall performance.   

 >**NOTE:** Knative Eventing Mesh is available in the alpha version. Use it only for testing purposes.
 

>  The new Eventing Mesh runs in parallel with the existing Event Bus. The Kyma Event Bus still supports sending Events to the regular eventing endpoint, while a separate Kyma endpoint handles sending Events to the new Knative Eventing Mesh. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Eventing Mesh runs in parallel with the existing Event Bus. The Kyma Event Bus still supports sending Events to the regular eventing endpoint, while a separate Kyma endpoint handles sending Events to the new Knative Eventing Mesh. 
```

---

> title: Knative Eventing Mesh (Alpha)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Knative Eventing Mesh (Alpha)"
```

type: Details
---

## Overview

> Knative Eventing Mesh leverages Knative Eventing components to build an eventing mesh that provides event routing and pub/sub capabilities. It abstracts the underlying messaging system and allows you to configure different persistence for each Namespace. Kyma components wire the mesh dynamically for event routing. This way, senders can inject Events into the mesh from multiple source points and subscribers can receive Events based on filters and their access permissions. The [Knative Broker and Trigger](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) CRDs allow the process of Event publishing and consumption to run smoother, thus significantly improving the overall performance.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative Eventing Mesh leverages Knative Eventing components to build an eventing mesh that provides event routing and pub/sub capabilities. It abstracts the underlying messaging system and allows you to configure different persistence for each Namespace. Kyma components wire the mesh dynamically for event routing. This way, senders can inject Events into the mesh from multiple source points, and subscribers can receive Events based on filters and their access permissions. The [Knative Broker and Trigger](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) CRDs allow the process of Event publishing and consumption to run smoother, thus significantly improving the overall performance.   
```

Reviewer: I only added a comma here: `source points, and subscribers` (it reads better this way IMHO)

>  >**NOTE:** Knative Eventing Mesh is available in alpha version. Use it only used for testing purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 >**NOTE:** Knative Eventing Mesh is available in the alpha version. Use it only for testing purposes.
```

>  The new Eventing Mesh runs in parallel with the existing Event Bus. Sending Events to the regular eventing endpoint still uses Kyma Event Bus, while a separate Kyma endpoint handles sending Events to the new Knative Eventing Mesh. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The new Eventing Mesh runs in parallel with the existing Event Bus. The Kyma Event Bus still supports sending Events to the regular eventing endpoint, while a separate Kyma endpoint handles sending Events to the new Knative Eventing Mesh. 
```

Reviewer: Hope I haven't changed the meaning ;)

> 

Reviewer: too many empty lines

## Event Flow

### Send Events

> The diagram shows you the main stages of the Event flow from the moment it is sent by the external Application up to when it is received by the lambda function.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram shows you the main stages of the Event flow - from the moment the external Application sends it, up to the point when the lambda function receives it. 
```

> >**NOTE**: The flow assumes you have already used Kyma console to add a service instance of an external Application to your Namespace and created a lambda with an Event trigger. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE**: The flow assumes you have already added a service instance of an external Application to your Namespace in the Kyma Console and created a lambda with an Event trigger. 
```

![Sending Events](./assets/knative-event-mesh-send-events.svg)

> 

Reviewer: additional empty line

> 1. The Application sends Events to [HTTP Source adapter](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/components/event-sources/adapter/http) which is an HTTP server deployed inside the `kyma-integration` Namespace.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Application sends Events to the [HTTP Source adapter](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/components/event-sources/adapter/http) which is an HTTP server deployed inside the `kyma-integration` Namespace.  
```

Reviewer: and not `HTTP Source Adapter` or `HTTP source adapter`?

2. The HTTP Source adapter forwards the Events to the default [Knative Broker](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger).

3. The Knative Broker then delivers Events to the proper lambda function. 

> 

Reviewer: additional empty line

### Subscribe to Events 

> 

Reviewer: additional empty line

> In the new Knative Eventing Mesh, you can use Knative Triggers to subscribe to any Events delivered to the Broker located in the user Namespace.  

Reviewer: user Namespace?

![Subscribe to Events](./assets/knative-event-mesh-subscription.svg)

> You can also use expressions that allow the Trigger to filter the incoming Events. For details on setting filters, read the **Trigger filtering** section [this](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use expressions that allow the Trigger to filter the incoming Events. For details on setting filters, read the **Trigger filtering** section in [this](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) document. 
```

Reviewer: or `of this document`

## Test Knative Eventing Mesh

> To reach the new Eventing Mesh use an HTTP request with the `/events` path. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reach the new Eventing Mesh, use an HTTP request with the `/events` path. 
```

> For example, if so far you have used `gateway.example.cx/v1/events`, use `gateway.example.cx/events` to make sure you work with the new Eventing Mesh. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you have used `gateway.example.cx/v1/events` so far, use `gateway.example.cx/events` to make sure you work with the new Eventing Mesh. 
```

> >**NOTE:** The HTTP Source adapter accepts only Events compliant with the [CloudEvents 1.0 specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/spec.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** The HTTP Source adapter only accepts Events compliant with the [CloudEvents 1.0 specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/spec.md).
```

 

## Event Flow

### Send Events

The diagram shows you the main stages of the Event flow from the moment it is sent by the external Application up to when it is received by the lambda function.  

>**NOTE**: The flow assumes you have already used Kyma console to add a service instance of an external Application to your Namespace,and created a lambda that has an Event trigger. 

![Sending Events](./assets/knative-event-mesh-send-events.svg)

1. The Application sends Events to [HTTP  Source adapter](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/components/event-sources/adapter/http) which is an HTTP server deployed inside the `kyma-integration` Namespace.  

    >**NOTE:** Events must be compliant with  the [CloudEvents 1.0 specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/spec.md).

2. The HTTP Source adapter forwards the Events to the default [Knative Broker](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger).

3. The Knative Broker then delivers Events to the proper lambda function. 

### Subscribe to Events 

> In the new Knative Eventing Mesh, you can use Knative Triggers to subscribe to any Events delivered to the Broker located in the user Namespace.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the new Knative Eventing mesh, you can use Knative Triggers to subscribe to any Events delivered to the Broker located in the user Namespace.  
```

![Subscribe to Events](./assets/knative-event-mesh-subscription.svg)

> You can also create expressions which allow the Trigger to filter the incoming Events. For details on setting filters, read the **Trigger filtering** section [this](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) document. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use filter expressions which allow the Trigger to filter the incoming Events. For details on setting filters, read the **Trigger filtering** section in [this](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker-trigger/) document. 
```

## Test Knative Eventing Mesh

> To reach the new Eventing Mesh use an HTTP request with the `/events` path. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reach the new Eventing mesh use an HTTP request with the `/events` path. 
```

> For example, if so far you have used `gateway.example.cx/v1/events`, use `gateway.example.cx/events` to make sure you work with the new Eventing Mesh. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if so far you have used `gateway.example.cx/v1/events`, use `gateway.example.cx/events` to make sure you work with the new Eventing mesh. This endpoint receives only [CloudEvents 1.0 specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/spec.md) compliant Events.
```
